# Data flow from bottom-to-up (child-to-father)

Since we created the form and simulated the insertion into the database, its time to use the data typed into the inputs and create a new `Expense` to add at the `ExpenseList`. But how can we do this?

Because all we saw until now was passing information from top to bottom (father-to-child), like the `App` creating the `ExpenseList` and passing the `Expenses` as a parameter, which `ExpenseList` should use by using the `props` assignment, creating a iteration for each `Expense` passed, to finally create a `Expense` component.

To make the child component be able to return data to the father component, we'll need to make some alterations like `Two-Way Binding`, `Child-to-Parent Component Communication (From Bottom to Up)` and `Lifting The State Up`.

## Two-Way Binding & Child-to-Parent Component Communication (Bottom-up)

**`Two-way binding`** is just creating a function in the father component which will be used by the child, through the `props` object. Its a kind of new, but trust me, its goind to work like magic.

Let's think a case scenario, where we inserted a new `Expense` into the database and now we have a `Expense` object in our front-end (function `submitHandler()`, located in the `FormExpense.js`) and we need this `Expense` to add a new expense into the `ExpenseList`. But to actually do that, we need to pass the object through `NewExpense.js`, `App.js` and then `ExpenseList.js`.

This is what we call **`Child-to-Parent Component Communication (Bottom-up)`**.

Think of climbing up a level to reach the `NewExpense.js`, since `FormExpense.js` is attached in there, climbing up another level to reach `App.js` to then climb down the `ExpenseList.js` where the `Expense` will be inserted.

We'll need to create a new function on the `NewExpense.js` which will need to be inserted as a parameter to the `FormExpense`.

```sh
import React from "react";
import FormExpense from "./FormExpense";
import './NewExpense.css'

const NewExpense = () => {
  
  const saveExpenseDataHandler = enteredExpenseData => {
    const expense = {
      ...enteredExpenseData,
      id : Math.random().toString()
    };
    console.log(expense);
  }

  return (
    <div className="new-expense">
      <FormExpense onSaveExpenseData={saveExpenseDataHandler} />
    </div>
  );

}

export default NewExpense;
```

Let's use `props` in the component function parameters as well.

Now, in the `FormExpense.js` file, we'll need to add `props` as a parameter now, and in the `submitHandler()`, we'll call the `onSaveExpenseData` attribute passing through our `Expense` that was created when the button was clicked to submit the form.

```sh
// ... initializing the component 

const FormExpense = (props) => {
  // ... creating the states for all inputs in the form

  const submitHandler = event => {
    event.preventDefault();

    const newExpense = {
      description : enteredDescription,
      value       : enteredValue,
      date        : new Date(enteredDate + 'T00:00:00') // in case if you live in Brazil
    };

    props.onSaveExpenseData(newExpense);

    setEnteredDescription('');
    setEnteredValue('');
    setEnteredDate('');
  };

  // ... rest of the function
}

export default FormExpense;
```

So, when we submit the form, we'll create a new expense using a JavaScript object to then call the `onSaveExpenseData` passing through our object. Remeber that function was created in `NewExpense.js`, so we need to use the `props`. With this, we transported our object to the father.

We will do the same thing now in the `App.js`, to pass the `Expense` that is in the `NewExpense.js` to `App.js`.

```sh
import ExpenseList from "./components/Expenses/ExpenseList";
import NewExpense from "./components/NewExpense/NewExpense";

function App() {
  const expenses = [
    {
      key         : 1,
      description : 'Car Insurance',
      date        : new Date(2020, 2, 19),
      value       : 264.97
    },
    {
      key         : 2,
      description : 'Guitar Reformation',
      date        : new Date(2020, 2, 20),
      value       : 165.99
    },
    {
      key         : 3,
      description : 'Supermarket',
      date        : new Date(2020, 2, 21),
      value       : 300.00
    }
  ];

  const addExpenseHandler = expense => {
    console.log('In App.js:');
    console.log(expense);
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <NewExpense onAddExpense={addExpenseHandler} />
      <ExpenseList expenses={expenses} />
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;
```

We created the `addExpenseHandler` which actually just logs the `Expense` (to actually just to see how this works) and we send this function as a value into the attribute `onAddExpense` on `<NewExpense />` component.

With this, we need to call this function using the `prop` object (`props.onAddExpense(expense)`) in the `NewExpense.js`, right after we log the `Expense` in the `saveExpenseDataHandler` function.

```sh
import React from "react";
import FormExpense from "./FormExpense";
import './NewExpense.css'

const NewExpense = (props) => {
  
  const saveExpenseDataHandler = enteredExpenseData => {
    const expense = {
      ...enteredExpenseData,
      id: Math.random().toString()
    };
    console.log('In NewExpense.js:');
    console.log(expense);
    props.onAddExpense(expense);
  }

  return (
    <div className="new-expense">
      <FormExpense onSaveExpenseData={saveExpenseDataHandler} />
    </div>
  );

}

export default NewExpense;
```

Now that we created the `Two-Way Binding` and used it to make the `Child-to-Parent Component Communication`, we can now send the Expense to the `ExpenseList.js`.

## Lifting State Up

What about the **`Lifting State Up`**?

We already implemented in the code. `Lifting State Up` was the process we used to transport the state/data from `FormExpense.js` to `App.js`. We're "lifting up" the data to the father component until it reaches the `App.js` through the functions on the `prop` object.

In the end when we lifted all the way, we will lift down to the `ExpenseList` (will be studied in the next section).
