# What are components? And why is React all about them?

React is a JavaScript library for **building user interfaces**

You can build user interfaces with **HTML5**, **CSS3** and **JavaScript**, but it's more complex and you will simply reinvent the wheel.

Or you can use React to build more complex, interactive and reactive user interfaces simpler, since React will do the job of creating the nitty gritty details and you can focus on the **core business logic** of your application.

## React is all about components

All **user interfaces** end up being **made of components**.

Components are, in the end, **a combination of HTML, CSS (for styling) and JavaScript (to do process some logic)**.

## Why components?

There's a lot of things to observe when it comes to building an user interface, a lot of code, a lot of HTML tags and a lot of CSS classes.

Using React, through its components, we can provide:

- **Reusability** (don't repeat yourself)
- **Separation of concerns** (don't do too many things in one and the same place [function])

## The apple doesn't fall far from the tree

React didn't invent the separation of concerns, it's something very commonly used on all programming languages:

- Split big chunks of code into multiple smaller functions.
- Doing so it becomes more easy to maintain the code.
- You can call these functions whenever you may need it, without the need of replicate code.

## How is a component built?

A **user interface** is built using **HTML, CSS and JavaScript**.

A user interface, in React, is a complex of components. These components are built combining HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

Though while CSS matters, is the least important part building components. **Mostly React components are built combining HTML and JavaScript**.

## React & Components

React allows you to **create re-usable and reactive components** consisting of HTML and JavaScript (and CSS).

- **Declarative approach**: Define the desired target state(s) and let React figure out the actual JavaScript DOM instructions.

Finally, we can say that, by using React, we **build our own, custom HTML Elements**.
