# React Standard Project Structure

How a React project is initialized when you run npx create-react-app .

## My-App (React project folder)

- ```node_modules```: A folder that stores all libraries used by React and by the project.
- ```public```: A folder that stores all files used by the browser (default files).
- ```src```: Folder used to store all code wrote in JSX/React that are the components, App.js, index.js.
- ```.gitignore```: File used to know which files/folders will not be pushed to github.
- ```package-lock.json```: File used to track the versions of the libraries used by the project.
- ```package.json```: File used to store all information about the project.
- ```README.md```: Markdown file to show more informations about the project

### public folder

This folder has files that will be used by the browser, when the page is loaded.

- ```favicon.ico```
- ```index.html```
- ```logo192.png```
- ```logo512.png```
- ```manifest.json```
- ```robots.txt```

Important!

- index.html will be used by React to "inject" the code and create the user interface on the page, through the ```<div id='root'></div>```

### src folder

That folder is where we will spend most time coding, creating components and pages. This folder has enumerous files, but three of those files are important right now:

- ```App.js```: This file have a function ```function App()``` which returns a "HTML-ish" tags and have the ```export default App```.
- ```index.css```: file containing styles for the index.js.
- ```index.js```: this is the first file which will be executed in the browser, when the page is loaded. Here React will create a ```root``` const which will search the ```div element``` with the id ```'root'``` on ```index.html``` and will render the app (```<App />```) on that ```<div>```

The **most important** thing is, React is **only JavaScript** code, nothing more, but the syntax is a bit different. **Everything we code in React, will be "transcribed" to native JavaScript** which the browser will interpret and build the page.

JavaScript doesn't use CSS, but in React we can use it by importing at the start of the file (index.js).

```React``` and ```ReactDOM``` are two libraries but both of them makes the React Library.

```ReactDOM.createRoot()``` method creates the main entrypoint, the main hook of the overall user interface. It tells React where React should be placed in the webpage, which is redirected to ```index.html``` in public folder.

The ```App``` imported in ```index.js``` is the first component created by default, using ```JSX``` syntax.
